Hey everyone, I'm Chris Crow, campus pastor for Crossway Christian Church's Millford campus here in Southern New Hampshire, where our mission is all about practicing the way of Jesus together as we pursue God, build community, and unleash compassion.
I pray that what you hear today will help you experience God more deeply and live more and more like Jesus.
It's been a long time since I've been in the pulpit, it seems like, and it's so good to be with you and open God's word together.
This past week, I got really sick.
And so my voice sounds pretty awful, I imagine.
And so I'm going to get through this message in the second service.
I pray by God's grace.
The Word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing asunder to the, what is it, the bones and marrow.
It does what it's supposed to do.
And we're going to get into God's Word together.
But I do want to say before we get into scripture together that if you came into the house today and you felt like your marriage is over.
I think somebody came into the house today and you felt like that's it.
It's done.
And I just want to say to you that God can perform miracles and he can do something in your marriage.
So I don't know who you are, but I just want to say this, don't make an alliance with alcohol.
I just sense that I need to say that.
We're going to look at King A has today.
King A has made alliances with the Assyrians.
And you're being tempted to make an alliance with alcohol thinking that that's going to help your marriage, help you deal with that.
It's not.
So if that is you,
This is a word of hope.
It's a word of encouragement, too.
God can work miracles.
He really can.
We thank you, Lord, for your word.
It's going to be powerful.
It always is.
I want to begin this new series with you rediscovering Christmas.
To me, Christmas was trying to stay up all night on Christmas Eve.
Have you ever tried that when you were a kid?
You still do, right?
You can't wait.
You're 52 years old.
Stay up all night.
Can't wait for the next morning when you go into that room where all of the presents are and I just remember as a young kid just waking up my two brothers and going downstairs into our rec room.
It was a rec room that had that orange shag carpet.
Now that's dating myself.
There was a day when that was really popular and so we would go into our rec room or our family room and there would be a sea of presents everywhere.
It was such a thrill, such a
a wonderful experience.
Some of those things like Stretch Armstrong, I think I have a picture.
Remember Stretch Armstrong?
You had to have a Stretch Armstrong when you were a kid.
And light, bright, and big wheels, and bikes, and all those other things.
That, to me, became Christmas.
I had a little elf.
It wasn't like G.I.
Joe, but it was like an elfie.
I called him Elfie.
And I would sleep with Elfie.
Praise God, I don't do that to this day, right?
You'd be like, okay.
And so, but that was when I was a kid.
And so I would sleep underneath the Christmas tree looking up into the lights.
Do you remember those old light bulbs, the colored ones that were like 400 degrees and when you touched them, it took like four layers of your skin off?
You had no more fingerprints anymore.
And so that was Christmas to me.
And then when I was watching a little drummer boy, it was one of those animation, clay animation things back to the classics and I was watching that.
And I remember, I really believe it was the Holy Spirit.
I didn't know Jesus at the time.
But I think it was a previous grace.
A previous grace is when God is drawing you to the gospel before you're born again.
See, the Holy Spirit is working inside of you in a very unique way to bring our understanding to the truth of the gospel.
That's called a previous grace.
It's previous to when you're redeemed.
It's previous to redemption.
It's a wonderful work.
And I was watching The Little Drummer Boy in the movie, The Little Drummer Boy,
takes his drum, and he loved his drum, and he laid it there at Baby Jesus.
And I remember thinking to myself, wow, something just touched my heart.
And what was happening is that I was discovering the real meaning of Christmas.
It wasn't in all those other things I mentioned.
It was to be found in a person, Jesus Christ.
So through the years since then, I've had to rediscover Christmas
in varying degrees, more devotion, more understanding, more revelation.
And what we want to do in this series is rediscover Christmas by looking at those who experienced the very first Christmas.
But to do that this morning, I want you to go to your Old Testament and to the book of Isaiah, the prophet Isaiah, Isaiah chapter seven and verse 14.
And I've titled this first message, Advent, the gift of waiting.
Advent, the gift of waiting.
All right, confession time.
I never experienced Advent, and I had been in pastoral ministry for 30 some years, and never experienced Advent.
To anybody else here, you've never experienced Advent until recently, in recent years?
Oh, you're gonna leave me up here by myself.
Thank you, sir.
I appreciate that.
And so I just never have.
We never celebrate it in our churches until we got to York, a very historical, very traditional church called York Street Baptist Church.
And when we were there, they said, are we going to celebrate Advent?
And I was like, well, yeah, OK. What do we do?
And so I was starting to learn what Advent was historically.
And it's a wonderful, wonderful thing.
Just wanting to know that it's not technically in Scripture, but it is in history.
And I am not anti-history.
I think there are some things that we can take from history, some traditions that point us to Jesus, point us to Christmas,
and then apply those to our lives.
And so for three years in New York, I started to celebrate Advent.
And so when I got here to crossway and we emphasized Advent here, I thought, that's great.
That's wonderful.
I'm excited about it.
So there's the title of the message for this morning, Advent, the gift of waiting, purpose of Advent, anticipation for the arrival, even preparation for the arrival of Jesus.
It's thinking and hopeful anticipation of when Christ would come.
And we're waiting and it's a gift.
I'm going to explain what that means.
Now, I don't know about you, but who here loves to wait?
Raise your hand.
Give it hardly amen.
Okay, that felt flat.
But anyway, so we're going to spend five to seven years of our life in some form of waiting.
You'll be waiting for a spouse when they're in the store shopping.
Right?
Strategically, you park your car out in the parking lot, right?
That's what I do.
And so I'm waiting.
And so you're going to be waiting at the DMV for a long period of that five to seven years.
You're going to be waiting in lines.
You're going to be waiting in traffic.
You're going to be waiting for doctor's appointments.
You're going to be waiting five to seven years of your life will be spent waiting.
Waiting is not an easy thing.
It's not an easy thing for anyone.
I liked what A.J.
Cheryl said in his book Rediscovering Christmas, quote, little advent, it's on the screen, little Christmas, great advent, great Christmas.
I found that to be true.
The more I look at advent, the more I experience this and prepare for it, the greater Christmas becomes to me.
And then I rediscover it even more because it's so profound.
It's so wonderful.
So Advent is four weeks long, and we're gonna light a candle here soon in a moment.
I wanna read Isaiah 7, 14 with you, and then over in chapter nine of Isaiah, verse six.
Can we read these out loud, these two verses, and then we're gonna expound them.
We're gonna find out what's going on in the life of King Ahaz, you're saying, well, how does King Ahaz have anything to do with Christmas?
And Advent, we're gonna find out.
So how about we read out loud, Isaiah chapter seven and verse 14.
Ready, begin.
Therefore, the Lord himself
We'll give you a sign.
Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel."
There you go.
How about chapter 9, verse 6.
And here's what it says.
Ready, out loud, everyone together, for to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, everlasting father, and what?
Prince of Peace.
Hallelujah.
There's the word of the Lord.
And we're gonna light our first candles.
So Nicole, if you could come up, this is the hope candle, hope and anticipation for the arrival of Jesus.
And we're gonna be lighting a candle each week and it represents something beautiful and wonderful.
Thank you, Nicole.
Of course, the white candle will light that represents Jesus himself.
Let's talk about Advent and the gift of waiting.
Why is it here in the text, the verses that we just read in Isaiah, the prophet?
Of course, Isaiah, the prophet is,
One of the major prophets, Isaiah and Jeremiah, those are major prophets.
Micah, Obadiah, those are minor prophets.
Not any less, not inferior to Isaiah and the Jeremiah and some of the others, but a very significant prophet, Isaiah, and he prophesies these verses in the middle of a context that I think it's important for you and I to understand when it comes to Advent and the gift of waiting.
I see two gifts, and we're gonna look at this kind of in the context of opening a gift,
You ever get one of those gifts and then you open it and there's multiple gifts inside the gift?
Don't you just love that?
You're like, how many are in here?
And you just keep digging.
And it's like, oh, there's another one.
And then there's another one.
And you just keep pulling those out.
Well, there's a couple of gifts.
And I'm sure there's many more in the text that we could look at.
But I just want to pull out two gifts of waiting when it comes to Advent in the context of what Isaiah is saying and in the life of Ahaz and the people of God.
And we're gonna see that this waiting is a very important period of time in all of our lives.
Because some of you need to realize this morning, or maybe watching online, that God is coming.
That God is coming because you believe, and it might be that person that I mentioned earlier about your marriage, you're thinking, there is no God.
I have prayed over and over again, and I have believed for many years, but there is no God.
He's not coming to my rescue or our rescue.
And I'm going to say to you that you're going to see something in the text that's going to help you in this season of your life.
God is coming.
He's going to manifest in your life in a way that's going to be profound and it's going to be powerful.
I've seen this over and over again in a lot of years of ministry.
God can still do this than He does.
Amen.
This is what he does.
So let's look at this gift and we're going to take a look at two of them.
Number one, then you'll see it on the screen.
No matter the pressure that you may be under God's presence is still even greater.
This is in verses one to nine of chapter seven.
I'm going to repeat that.
No matter the pressure, you may be under God's presence is still even greater.
Chapter seven opens up in the days of a has.
Who is a has?
Good king or bad king?
Everybody?
Yeah, not so good.
There might have been a time when Ahaz was, you know, walking with God, thinking about God, honoring God.
But Ahaz would go on to be one of the most wicked kings that Israel had ever had, because he compromised.
Because God, through Isaiah, would give him a word.
That there would be a child who would be born.
And the government would be on his shoulders.
And what is he doing there?
He's saying to Ahaz,
who started to believe in the Assyrians and that they were more powerful than God, that the presence of the enemy had become so real to him that Isaiah had to give this verse.
It's a prophetic verse of a coming Messiah that God would be with his people because A.H.S.
should have realized as king in Israel that God wants to visit him.
God will visit his people.
But he didn't believe it.
And the nation of Judah, which was already in bad shape, would get even worse.
And they would go into captivity known as the Assyrian captivity.
You don't want to go into a captivity.
For that person I was talking to that you're making an alliance with alcohol, what you're going to do is end up in captivity.
So you're going to be similar to Ahaz here.
And God is going to speak through you
Through a prophet or through a message rather to you about an alliance that you need to make God will show up in your life Do not align yourself with these other things.
That's the message Isaiah had For a has it's a wonderful text description.
It's hard to read versus one down to verse nine Back in chapter one verse one of Isaiah it says in the days of uziah who was a good king he reigned 52 years and
It was A has his grandfather, and then he got Jopham, that was A has his father, and then he got A has listed, and then Hezekiah.
Wonderful king Hezekiah, he brought reforms.
He would take the Astra, and then the prophets of Baal, and all of the shrines, and he would level them, because what you want to look for is what the enemy is manifesting in our lives.
In that day, the enemy was manifesting through Baal worship.
The greatest enemy that God will ever have is the devil.
bales above.
So when you want to look at what's going on, maybe even in our world, you want to look for bail worship.
You're saying bail worship today, bail worship is everywhere.
It's everywhere.
It's Wall Street.
There are symbols on Wall Street that is for bail.
This is going on in our world.
If you go to the Stonehenge of New England, which is in Salem, New Hampshire, have you ever been there?
Take a peek at it.
Go inside there.
and you'll see inscriptions to Baal.
This is a real thing.
So the enemy of God was coming, and Ahaz would set up these things.
He would bring in Baal worship.
He would bow down to the Asturah that the Assyrians would believe in, and he would bring that back into the temple, and he would take the temple, and he would level it, and then set up all this pagan worship.
There was so much compromise in his life, all because he didn't believe that God was going to be with him.
Think about that when you and I don't believe that God's gonna be with us.
So this is Judah, Judah's in trouble, verse four of chapter one says, ah, sinful nation referring to Judah.
They have forsaken the Lord and they have despised the Holy One.
So here's Isaiah the prophet bringing A has the word.
And so what's gonna happen is that the Assyrians from the North are gonna come down and invade
You had the nation of Israel, the northern kingdom, the southern kingdom is Judah.
They were divided in the northern kingdom of Israel is plotting to come against Judah and Syria was going to be part of that.
And so you have a has pretty much freaking out.
In verse two, it says, when the house of David was told Syria is in a league with Ephraim, the heart of a has, look at that.
Verse two, the heart of a has and the heart of his people shook.
as the trees of the forest shake before the wind, it's a has.
What's he shaking with the pressure?
When you're under pressure, how do you react?
Anybody freak out here?
We have a tendency to do this.
We have a tendency, and then the enemy comes in and he tries to bring some delusion and some deception and trickery and wiles, and this is what he does, and he tries to bring that into our mind.
You gotta watch your mind.
It's a battle for your mind.
And when that happens, you're going to go down this road.
You're going to be like, well, God's not showing up.
He's not with me.
God isn't with us anymore.
And so I need to look over here to the Assyrians.
I need to look over here.
No, you don't.
No, we don't.
You're not going to find anything in this world that you cannot find in the kingdom of God.
Don't make an alliance with the world.
That's what he was doing.
It's an empty pursuit in the life of Ahaz, and he didn't want to wait, certainly didn't want to wait.
So he makes plans of his own and goes down this road for the nation of Judah that was not not good.
And when you open your life up to that, then you're going to end up in fear and despair, that's what happens.
That's what happened to him.
So there's a king, Tiglath Pileser, and he was the Assyrian king, and his presence was stronger to Ahaz than God himself.
Notice verse 4, it says here in the text, and say to him, be careful, be quiet, do not fear, and do not let your heart be faint because of these two smoldering stumps of fire brands.
This is talking about Syria and Israel.
And at the fierce anger of resonance Syria and the son of Ramalyan, because of Syria with Ephraim and the son of Ramalya, has devised evil against you saying, let us go up against Judah.
and terrify it and let us conquer it for ourselves and set up the Son of Tabille as king in the midst of it.
Then he goes on, he says at the bottom here, verse nine, last part of verse nine, if you are not firm in faith, you will not be firm at all.
Here's a word, not just for A has, but for us.
If you're not gonna be firm in faith, you're not gonna be firm at all.
How powerful is that?
When the pressure's on,
The presence of God is even greater still.
The gift of waiting is going to reveal pressure points in our life and our walk with the Lord.
I know for me at times when the pressure has become too great and I know the tempter comes and the tempter would want me to turn.
Can I be honest with you and I'm going to be transparent and I'm willing to do this.
I hope that you're willing to be transparent as a campus.
There was a time that the pressure was so great and the enemy was in like a flood in my head and in my mind that what wanted to come out of my mouth, it was an F-bomb.
I went to F-bomb God.
That was in my head.
It didn't come out of my mouth, but it was in my head.
And so much pressure was going on and how much the enemy was coming against my thoughts.
It's a real attack.
It's a real attack, but there can be real victory.
There can be real peace that passes understanding.
There really can be joy unspeakable and full of glory, as Peter said.
He has would definitely not go down that road, and his history would not be good.
He wasn't even buried in the Valley of the Kings.
That's where great kings were buried.
They left him out of that cemetery because of his wickedness and his compromise.
I want to look at the second one with you.
And by the way, they waited 700 years.
You talk about an advent.
We have what, four weeks?
We can wait till Christmas from A has to the birth of Jesus with 700 years.
Can you imagine that?
Could have been sooner than that if A has wouldn't have made alliances with the enemy or with the world.
Could have been that A has, if he believed that God would be with him, that he could trust God,
Did that 700 years might have been reduced to seven years or seven months?
I don't know.
I just wonder if God keeps us in the waiting because we just have to learn some stuff, right?
And I don't know about you, but I don't want to wait a minute longer than I have to for anything.
I mean, I go to market basket down here and I'm like, that's just not happening for me.
with those lines and the amount of people are stuck in that small store.
So I'll travel down to nationalism where the stores are like three times bigger.
Because I don't have to wait.
When it comes to spiritual life, I just want this to be quick, Lord, I'll repent fast.
If I've done something wrong, I'll say, sorry, like the next second, I hope.
I won't wait an hour.
I won't wait a week or a month.
Don't wait any longer and you have to.
God is with you.
He is with you.
Number two.
No matter the past, this is in verse 10 to 14.
No matter the past, you experience God's promise is still even greater.
This is a wonderful text of scripture.
And again, the Lord spoke to A has in verse 10, if you'll take your eyes there.
Again, the Lord spoke to again.
Again, notice the word again.
How many times has God tried to speak to us?
How many times has God tried to speak to you?
And the word again comes up.
Oh, again, here I come.
The Lord's coming at me again with a word.
Okay, Lord.
This is fine because this is all part of sanctification.
It's all part of Christian growth.
And so here in A has his life.
God again uses Isaiah, spoke to A has and watch this verse 11, ask a sign of the Lord your God, let it be deep as sheal or as high as heaven.
In other words, the opportunity is here.
This is fantastic.
I mean, in Matthew chapter 16, they were looking for a sign, the Pharisees and Sadducees.
And Jesus says, it's not going to be a sign given to you because you're corrupt.
Or I'll give you a sign.
Here's the sign.
It's going to be the sign of Jonah.
It's going to be the resurrection, three days, three nights in the belly of the whale.
Well, the son of God is going to be three days and three nights in the ground.
And then when he comes out of the ground, that's going to be your sign.
But they were saying, Jesus is an adulteress and sinful generation seeking for a sign.
But here, it's like God is saying, I'll give you a sign.
I will show you, I will promise to you something.
That's what it says here and watch what happens in the text.
Verse 12, but A has said, I will not ask and I will not be put the Lord to the test.
What?
That is false pseudo humility.
You don't say to God who says to you, I'm gonna show you something, I'm gonna show up in your life.
I'm going to do something great.
I'm going to heal somebody.
I'm going to speak something into you.
It's going to bring deliverance.
And you say, oh, God, that's OK. Give it to somebody else.
I don't know if I really need that.
Isaiah's reacting.
His reaction is completely wrong.
You have to honor God when God says something to you.
And when he says something to me and when he wants to provide something for us, you receive that.
You don't stiff-arm God and say, God, no, it's OK. That's what happens here.
In verse 12 and he said, here then O house of David, is it too little for you to weary men that you weary my God also?
Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign and there's the verse that we read.
There's coming a Messiah.
Jesus will come, but you're going to have to wait 700 years.
Point here is no matter the past you experience God's promise is even greater still Ask for a sign.
It's okay.
Ask for a sign Our past is a has was littered with lost opportunity We could have had God's blessing maybe in bigger ways and bigger measure, but we chose to align with the world With the enemy in some form and it only brought some
form of captivity.
The waiting is the gift because it gets us to a place of promise again.
It gets us back to the Word of God.
This is why it's so important to preach out of the Word of God.
Some people say to me through the years and they pray and I appreciate their prayers.
They'll say, bless Pastor Chris' message.
I have no message.
I have a text of Scripture that I have to get it right.
That I have to interpret it correctly by the Spirit.
And then I deliver what the text says.
That's what preaching is.
It's not preaching about the Bible.
It's actually preaching the Bible.
That's where the power lies.
So when we preach, we preach the Bible.
And the Holy Spirit then takes the Bible and does the transformation in all of our lives.
Amen?
This is what happens.
You remove Christians, the church away from scripture, and we're just asking,
for another kind of captivity.
The promises of God are sure.
And the Bible says about itself in the book of Psalms, every word of God is sure.
It's perfect.
Love the word of God.
Don't you love the word of God?
Such an amazing thing.
Here's a couple of thoughts of application.
I'll bring it to a close.
Letter A, I think I have these on the screen.
Keep believing God is turning your gloom into glory.
You're thinking, oh, my Christmas is gloomy.
Can I show you chapter nine really quick?
Verse one, chapter nine, verse one.
But there will be no gloom for her who is in anguish.
In the former time, he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naftali.
But in the latter time, he has made glorious the way of the sea and the land beyond the Jordan Galilee of the nations.
In other words, we read the verse in chapter, verse six for unto us a child is born.
You talk about gloom over Judah.
for centuries, and the prophet is saying that the gloom is gonna be turned to glory.
Same thing for you.
So if you think you're gloomed out, clouds over your head, family in trouble, your pressure is mounting because of some financial situation that you're going through, God will take your gloom and turn it to glory.
Application, keep believing God.
Letter B.
Keep becoming the person God is wanting you to be, right?
He wants you to be a certain way.
He wanted A has to be a certain way, and he wasn't.
So keep becoming this person.
It's also in verse one.
There's change that's coming.
Beautiful change.
Jesus is coming.
He will arrive.
God with us in that period of time, just keep becoming the person that God has determined.
for you to become.
Don't be a person like A has lost opportunity.
Keep believe and keep becoming.
Number one, God's presence is greater than the pressure that you are facing.
And then number two, God's promise is greater than whatever has happened in your past.
Amen.
Jesus, we thank you.
You are the savior of the world.
And if there is a person, man or woman or child that has not believed on Christ for the forgiveness of their sins, they haven't repented, they haven't turned, they're going away from you, but now they want to come to you, we pray that that would happen.
May they accept Jesus.
It's so much more than toys and so much more than tinsel and trees and all of the wonderful things that we have fun, we celebrate certainly, but Jesus, you are definitely
the one that we're keeping our eyes on.
And so, Advent, the gift of waiting, help us to realize that waiting is such a wonderful and beautiful thing.
Pressure is mounting for some dear people in this room.
They feel it, they can sense it, they can see it, would you just help them to realize that your presence is still greater.
Give them a sense of God, a sense of that you're next to them, of who you are, and also the promises.
I think they're looking back on their past and they're thinking with regret.
Would you pray, I pray, we pray that you would help them to get past their past.
Help them, Lord, to see your promises are so beautiful and wonderful.
Jesus, you're coming.
You came the first time you're coming again the second time.
So we're in a wait right now for you, Jesus, to come back.
In the meantime, help us to keep believing and help us to keep becoming in Jesus' name.
Amen.
God bless your love.
Thanks for listening to the Crossway Christian Church's Middleford campus sermon podcast.
If you like to plug into the life of our community or have any questions that we might be able to answer, visit our website at CrosswayCC.org to connect with us.
Until next time, we can be with you.
May the Lord bless you and keep you.